
## 2.3 Error Handling

Because Lua is an embedded extension language, 
all Lua actions start from C code in the host program calling a function from the Lua library. 
(When you use Lua standalone, the lua application is the host program.) 
Whenever an error occurs during the compilation or execution of a Lua chunk, control returns to the host, 
which can take appropriate measures (such as printing an error message).

Lua code can explicitly generate an error by calling the `error` function. 
If you need to catch errors in Lua, you can use `pcall` or `xpcall` to call a given function in protected mode.

Whenever there is an error, an error object (also called an error message) is propagated with information about the error. 
Lua itself only generates errors whose error object is a string, 
but programs may generate errors with any value as the error object. 
It is up to the Lua program or its host to handle such error objects.

When you use `xpcall` or `lua_pcall`, you may give a message handler to be called in case of errors. 
This function is called with the original error message and returns a new error message. 
It is called before the error unwinds the stack, so that it can gather more information about the error, 
for instance by inspecting the stack and creating a stack traceback. 
This message handler is still protected by the protected call; 
so, an error inside the message handler will call the message handler again. 
If this loop goes on for too long, Lua breaks it and returns an appropriate message. 

[2.4 Metamethods](./2.4-metamethods.md)
